
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# What is it?

This repository contains code for reproducing simulations from the paper
“The Spike-and-Slab Elastic Net as a Classification Tool in Alzheimer’s
Disease.” There are two primary folders. The folder “ADNI-analyses”
contains details regarding analysis of ADNI data, while the folder
“ssen-classification-simulations” contains code and details for
reproducing the simulation study. All analyses, including simulations,
were conducted on the cluster at the University of Alabama at Birmingham
(UAB). We include `.sh` scripts and `R` code for reproducing the
analyses using Slurm Workload Manager
(<https://slurm.schedmd.com/overview.html>). If you want to re-run
everything from scratch, you will need to change path names in `R` files
and the Slurm scripts, and if your institution does not use Slurm, then
the shells may not be that useful to you. More generally, we recommend
consulting the `.Rmd` files, which combine code and explanations with
`R` markdown.

We are not authorized to include data from the ADNI study, but details
for access are available at <http://adni.loni.usc.edu/>. We have
nevertheless included our code for analyses using ADNI data, so that
anyone with access could run the analyses if they so choose. Note that
we use the `ADNIMERGE` package version 0.0.1, released on 2020-02-19;
subsequent versions/release dates may result in a different, but
significantly overlapping, data set. The folder
“Rcode\_analyses\_cheaha” and “scripts\_analyses\_cheaha” contains the
`R` code and `.sh` scripts, respectively, that were used to run the
analyses on UAB’s cluster. The PDF file “analysis\_details” is directly
generated from the `.Rmd` file for those users without access to ADNI
data.

With respect to simulations (within folder:
“ssen-classification-simulations”), the folder “Rcode” contains code for
simulating and analyzing data, while the folder “scripts” contains `.sh`
files for running simulations and analyses on UAB’s cluster. The `R`
files whose file names are of the form `test_.*.R` can be used to get an
idea for run-times necessary on your machine or institution cluster.
Again, the primary file of interest for most users is the `.Rmd` file,
which reproduces tables and figures, and gives some brief details of the
simulation scenario and how values were generated. Due to their size, I
have not included simulated data in the repository, which is needed to
reproduced the figure of example data and observe the balanced in
outcome distribution, so you will need to generate the simulated data on
your own. If you’d rather not do this, you can reference the PDF
“simulation\_details” generated by the `.Rmd` file that is included in
this repository.
